# Welcome to the DAO DAO contributing guide <!-- omit in toc -->

Thank you for investing your time in contributing to our project!

Read our [Code of Conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) to keep our community
approachable and respectable.

Contributions will fall under varying open-source license agreements depending
on package. Most of our packages use [BSD 3-Clause Clear
License](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/bsd-3-clause-clear), while our main
`dapp` uses [GNU Affero General Public License v3.0
](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/agpl-3.0). `LICENSE` files exist in each
package describing the license that applies to them.

In this guide you will get an overview of the contribution workflow from opening
an issue, creating a PR, reviewing, and merging the PR.

## New contributor guide

Look at [our wiki](https://github.com/DA0-DA0/dao-dao-ui/wiki/) for the most
up-to-date information on how to contribute to the DAO DAO UI.

In general, you'll want to either (1) create issues for bugs or (2) create pull
requests that close open issues. Find some information on what those terms mean
below.

### Issues

#### Create a new issue

If you spot a problem, [search for an already existing
issue](https://docs.github.com/en/github/searching-for-information-on-github/searching-on-github/searching-issues-and-pull-requests#search-by-the-title-body-or-comments).
If a related issue doesn't exist, you can open a [new
issue](https://github.com/DA0-DA0/dao-dao-ui/issues/new).

#### Solve an issue

Scan through our [existing issues](https://github.com/DA0-DA0/dao-dao-ui/issues)
to find one that interests you. You can narrow down the search using `labels` as
filters. If you find an issue to work on, you are welcome to open a PR with a
fix.

### Make Changes

### Fork the codebase

You must first [install Git](https://github.com/git-guides/install-git) to work
with the codebase.

Follow this guide on [contributing to projects through
forks](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/contributing-to-projects)
to start.

### Commit your update

Commit the changes once you are happy with them.

### Pull Request

When you're finished with the changes, create a pull request, also known as a
PR.

- Don't forget to [link the PR to an
  issue](https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue)
  if you are solving one. Once you submit your PR, a team member will review
  your proposal. We may ask questions or request additional information.
- We may ask for changes to be made before a PR can be merged, either using
  [suggested
  changes](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/incorporating-feedback-in-your-pull-request)
  or pull request comments. You can apply suggested changes directly through the
  UI. You can make any other changes in your fork, then commit them to your
  branch.
- As you update your PR and apply changes, mark each conversation as
  [resolved](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/commenting-on-a-pull-request#resolving-conversations).
- If you run into any merge issues, checkout this [git
  tutorial](https://lab.github.com/githubtraining/managing-merge-conflicts) to
  help you resolve merge conflicts and other issues. Feel free to ask for help
  resolving merge conflicts if needed; it can get confusing, and you don't want
  to accidentally erase any of your hard work.

### Your PR is merged!

Congratulations :tada::tada: DAO DAO thanks you :sparkles:.

Once your PR is merged, your contributions will be publicly visible.
